OpenTelemetry (S3M) Collector Docs and Getting Started revisions (#1872)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/data-source-and-configurations/collect-logs.md

```yaml
receivers:
  filelog/custom_files:
    include:
    - /var/log/myservice/*.log
    - /other/path/**/*.txt
    - ./tmp/logs/*.log
    include_file_name: false
    include_file_path_resolved: true
processors:
  groupbyattrs/file path resolved:
    keys:
      - log.file.path_resolved
service:
  pipelines:
    logs/custom_files:
      receivers:
      - filelog/custom_files
      processors:
      - memory_limiter
      - groupbyattrs/file path resolved
      - resourcedetection/system
      - sumologic_schema
      - batch
      exporters:
      - sumologic
```

The `include_file_name: false` prevents the receiver from adding `log.file.name` attribute to the logs.
Instead, we are using `include_file_path_resolved: true`,
which adds a `log.file.path_resolved` attribute to the logs
that contains the whole path of the file, as opposed to just the name of the file.
The `log.file.path_resolved` attribute should be moved to resource and we use [Group by Attributes processor][groupbyattrprocessor] for that.

The remaining processors in pipeline are from `sumologic.yaml` file and should be applied for better performance of collector and use of Sumo Logic platform.

:::Note

> Receiver (`filelog/custom_files`) and pipeline (`logs/custom_files:`) names should be unique across all configuration files to avoid conflicts and unexpected bahavior

Author: ```suggestion
Receiver (`filelog/custom_files`) and pipeline (`logs/custom_files:`) names should be unique across all configuration files to avoid conflicts and unexpected behavior.
```

---
id: collect-logs
title: Collect Logs
sidebar_label: Collect Logs
description: Learn how to collecting logs
---

> Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector provides various receivers for log collection. You can find the full list in [our repository].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector provides various receivers for log collection. You can find the full list in [our repository].
```

---
id: collect-logs
title: Collect Logs
sidebar_label: Collect Logs
description: Learn how to collecting logs
---

> Sumo Logic Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector provides various receivers for log collection. You can find the full list in [our repository].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector provides various receivers for log collection. You can find the full list in [our repository].
```

```yaml
receivers:
  filelog:
    include:
    - /var/log/myservice/*.log
    - /other/path/**/*.txt
    include_file_name: false
    include_file_path_resolved: true
    storage: file_storage
processors:
  groupbyattrs/file path resolved:
    keys:
      - log.file.path_resolved
service:
  pipelines:
    logs/custom_files:
      receivers:
      - filelog/custom_files
      processors:
      - memory_limiter
      - groupbyattrs/file path resolved
      - resourcedetection/system
      - sumologic_schema
      - batch
      exporters:
      - sumologic
```

For more details, see the [Filelog Receiver documentation][filelogreceiver_readme].

### Parsing JSON logs

Filelog Receiver with [json_parser][json_parser] operator can be used for parsing JSON logs.
The [json_parser][json_parser] operator parses the string-type field selected by `parse_from` as JSON
(by default `parse_from` is set to `$body` which indicates the whole log record).

For example when logs has following form in the file:

```json
{"message": "{\"key\": \"val\"}"}
```

> then configuration to extract JSON which is represented as string (`{\"key\": \"val\"}`) has following form:

Author: ```suggestion
Then configuration to extract JSON which is represented as string (`{\"key\": \"val\"}`) has following form:
```

---
id: collect-logs
title: Collect Logs
sidebar_label: Collect Logs
description: Learn how to collecting logs
---

> Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector provides various receivers for log collection. Full list of them is available in [our repository].
> This document explains with more details, the receivers which are the most commonly used for logs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector provides various receivers for log collection. You can find the full list in [our repository].

This document explains with more details, the receivers  most commonly used for logs:
```

Author: The sentence is correct, we can't use "The" because it's an article that should be used to specify a particular noun, whereas Sumo Logic is a proper noun.

Reviewer 2: I know it can sound odd grammatically, but it's our branding wording as well as the tech industry standard. See these examples: 

- https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/launching-the-aws-distro-for-opentelemetry-developer-site-with-gatsby-and-graphql/
- https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/containers-orchestration/kubernetes-control-plane/
- https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/collect-metrics-telegraf/telegraf-collection-architecture/
- https://docs.appdynamics.com/appd-cloud/en/kubernetes-and-app-service-monitoring/install-kubernetes-and-app-service-monitoring/configure-appdynamics-cloud-kubernetes-collectors/appdynamics-distribution-for-opentelemetry-collector-settings

Author: "The" is incorrect here to use grammatically.

Reviewer 2: While I agree with you, you'd need to take that up with our branding team. Sometimes in tech, financial, and healthcare writing, terms may not make sense grammatically, but from a legal and branding standpoint, we need to comply.

Reviewer: Hey guys, while I appreciate the dedication to grammar here, you can find the full list in our repository is grammatically correct. Use of the definite article is always acceptable when used as an adjective.  http://www.butte.edu/departments/cas/tipsheets/grammar/articles.html#:~:text=The%20definite%20article%20(the)%20is,a%20noun%20takes%20no%20article. 

In this case the list you need is in the repository. I would not say List you need in repository.

Reviewer 2: Hi @stacykor , that sentence was not the issue in question. It is "Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry". Per guidance I've received from the OTEL team, throughout our branding, and our peers' products, it's "_The_ Sumo Logic Distribution...."

[1:40](https://sumologic.slack.com/archives/D03G7LN9G95/p1679172011823399)
Per Perk and the OTEL team, throughout our branding, and Google searches for our peers' products, it's "The Sumo Logic Distribution...."

Reviewer: Yep, because it's a variant of the Otel collector so the definite article draws attention to the version. The Sumo Logic Distribution for Open Telemetry is the best. The Competitor Otel collector is not as good.  If it were a noun itself like LogReduce, the definite article would not be required. LogReduce provides.

* [Filelog Receiver](#filelog-receiver)
* [Windows Log Event Receiver](#windows-log-event-receiver)

## Filelog Receiver

The Filelog Receiver tails and parses logs from files.

The following is a basic configuration for the Filelog Receiver, which can be placed in `conf.d` directory:

```yaml
receivers:
  filelog/custom_files:
    include:
    - /var/log/myservice/*.log
    - /other/path/**/*.txt
    - ./tmp/logs/*.log
    include_file_name: false
    include_file_path_resolved: true
processors:
  groupbyattrs/file path resolved:
    keys:
      - log.file.path_resolved
service:
  pipelines:
    logs/custom_files:
      receivers:
      - filelog/custom_files
      processors:
      - memory_limiter
      - groupbyattrs/file path resolved
      - resourcedetection/system
      - sumologic_schema
      - batch
      exporters:
      - sumologic
```

> The `include_file_name: false` prevents the receiver from adding `log.file.name` attribute to the logs.
> Instead, we are using `include_file_path_resolved: true`,
> which adds a `log.file.path_resolved` attribute to the logs
> that contains the whole path of the file, as opposed to just the name of the file.
> The `log.file.path_resolved` attribute should be moved to resource and we use [Group by Attributes processor][groupbyattrprocessor] for that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `include_file_name: false` prevents the receiver from adding `log.file.name` attribute to the logs.
Instead, we are using `include_file_path_resolved: true`, which adds a `log.file.path_resolved` attribute to the logs
that contains the whole path of the file, as opposed to just the name of the file. The `log.file.path_resolved` attribute should be moved to resource and we use [Group by Attributes processor][groupbyattrprocessor] for that.
```

The remaining processors in pipeline are from `sumologic.yaml` file and should be applied for better performance of collector and use of Sumo Logic platform.

:::note
Receiver (`filelog/custom_files`) and pipeline (`logs/custom_files:`) names should be unique across all configuration files to avoid conflicts and unexpected behavior.
:::

### Keeping track of position in files

> By default, the Filelog receiver watches files starting at their end
> (`start_at: end` is the [default][filelogreceiver_readme]),
> so nothing will be read after the otelcol process starts until new data is added to the files.
> To change this, add `start_at: beginning` to the receiver's configuration.
> To prevent the receiver from reading the same data over and over again on each otelcol restart,
> also add the [File Storage extension][filestorageextension_docs] which is already defined in `sumologic.yaml`, that will allow Filelog receiver to persist the current
> position in watched files between otelcol restarts. Here's an example of such configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the Filelog receiver watches files starting at their end (`start_at: end` is the [default][filelogreceiver_readme]), so nothing will be read after the otelcol process starts until new data is added to the files. To change this, add `start_at: beginning` to the receiver's configuration.

To prevent the receiver from reading the same data over and over again on each otelcol restart, also add the [File Storage extension][filestorageextension_docs] which is already defined in `sumologic.yaml`, that will allow Filelog receiver to persist the current position in watched files between otelcol restarts. Here's an example of such configuration:
```
